# Synthetic-Data-Generation

This project focuses on generating synthetic data using various Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) and other models. The generated data can be used for various purposes, including data augmentation, privacy preservation, and machine learning model training.

### Notebooks

- **custom-model.ipynb**: Contains custom GAN models built using TensorFlow and Keras.
- **gen-model.ipynb**: Contains code for generating models with custom metadata.
- **sdv-model.py**: Implements synthetic data generation using SDV (Synthetic Data Vault) library.
- **visualisation.ipynb**: Contains code for visualizing the generated data.

### Data

- **Data/Fake/**: Contains synthetic datasets generated by different models.
- **Data/Real/**: Contains real datasets used for training the models.

### Models

- **Model/**: Contains pre-trained models for generating synthetic data.

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/krish-parikh/Synthetic-Data-Generation.git
    cd Synthetic-Data-Generation
    ```

2. Install the required dependencies:
    ```sh
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

## Usage

### Models

To train and generate synthetic data using the custom GAN model, run the cells in the gen-model.ipynb notebook.

### Parameters

- **enforce_min_max_values**: `bool`
  - Default: `True/False`
  - Description: Each column stays within the min and max values of the real data.

- **enforce_rounding**: `bool`
  - Default: `True/False`
  - Description: Round the generated values to the nearest integer.

- **locales**: `str`
  - Default: `'en_US'`
  - Description: Generate PII data according to specific regions and languages.

- **numerical_distributions**: `dict`
  - Default: `None`
  - Description: Distribution to use for each numerical column, e.g., `'norm'`, `'beta'`, `'truncnorm'`, `'uniform'`, `'gamma'`, or `'gaussian_kde'`.

- **default_distribution**: `str`
  - Default: `'norm'`
  - Description: Distribution to use for numerical columns that are not specified.

- **batch_size**: `int`
  - Default: `500`
  - Description: Number of samples to train on each step. Increase to improve training stability.

- **discriminator_dim**: `Tuple[int, int]`
  - Default: `(256, 256)`
  - Description: Number of layers and the neurons in each layer of the discriminator.

- **generator_dim**: `Tuple[int, int]`
  - Default: `(256, 256)`
  - Description: Number of layers and the neurons in each layer of the generator.

- **embedding_dim**: `int`
  - Default: `128`
  - Description: Size of the random noise vector. Increase to increase the capacity of the model to learn complex patterns.

- **discriminator_decay**: `float`
  - Default: `1e-6`
  - Description: Decay rate of the discriminator learning rate. Adjust to regularize the model.

- **generator_decay**: `float`
  - Default: `1e-6`
  - Description: Decay rate of the generator learning rate.

- **discriminator_lr**: `float`
  - Default: `2e-4`
  - Description: Learning rate of the discriminator. Higher rates may speed up convergence but risk overshooting.

- **generator_lr**: `float`
  - Default: `2e-4`
  - Description: Learning rate of the generator.

- **discriminator_steps**: `int`
  - Default: `1`
  - Description: Number of discriminator updates per generator update. Increase to improve stability.

- **log_frequency**: `bool`
  - Default: `True/False`
  - Description: Whether to use log frequency of categorical levels in conditional sampling. `True` is for handling imbalanced categorical data by sampling more frequently from less frequent categories.

- **pac**: `int`
  - Default: `10`
  - Description: Number of samples to group together when applying the discriminator.